                                                    Data Science Capstone Project
                                            Part of Coursera IBM Applied Data Science Capstone
                                            Opening a Supermarket in Los Angeles, California
    By: Saurav Arun Nair
    22nd May 2020


Introduction:
In today’s fast paced world, there is should be a one stop place for everything people would like to purchase rather than having to visi different shops for every particular item on their shopping list as this would be very time consuming. Supermarkets are stores where one can easily purchase all the required items like grocery, toys, food, packaged products, home appliances, clothes etc. Supermarkets are efficient as they provide the customer all they need at one location without having to visit different stores for each particular item. There are various supermarkets in Los Angeles namely Raley’s Supermarket, Rosco Supermarket, CostCo, Walmart etc. As Efficient as they are, Supermarkets are costly to build and maintain as they require a big amount of land. For a real estate developer or investor, it is important that the supermarket is opened in such a location where there is less competition from other supermarkets.

Problem Description:
While opening a new supermarket, it is important to ensure that the supermarket is opened in such a place where there are no Supermarkets as this will reduce direct competition. Using Data science techniques, we can solve this problem using location wise venue data from reliable sources and using machine learning techniques to solve this problem.


Data Description:
As per the course, we can gather venue Data from Foursquare to 
analyse for supermarkets in each neighbourhood and make an 
informed decision as to where it would be efficient to open a new 
Supermarket. Neighbourhood data for Los Angeles is collected from 
Wikipedia from the Wikipedia through the below link. Using this data 
we will see which neighbourhood suits best to open a new 
supermarket. Further, we will use Data from Foursquare to get 
nearby venues details of the neighbourhoods gathered from the 
Wikipedia page. Foursquare Labs Inc., commonly known 
as Foursquare, is an American technology company. The company's 
location platform is the foundation of several business and consumer 
products, including the Foursquare City Guide and Foursquare 
Swarm apps. In November 2009, Foursquare opened up access to 
its API, enabling developers to access data generated by the 
Foursquare app and build applications on top of that data. We will be 
using this API to gather venue data for our neighbourhoods.
Link:https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_districts_and_neighbo
rhoods_in_Los_Angeles . Neighbourhood names Data will be 
extracted from Wikipedia in an excel sheet which will be used to 
collect neighbourhood names into the python notebook. Further, we 
using those names as an input to gather co ordinate data for each of 
the neighbourhoods. Foursquare will then provide venue data for
each neighbourhood in the Los Angeles area. 
Methodology:
1. Analytic approach: We use K means clustering method to divide 
the neighbourhoods into various clusters based on the 
presence of supermarkets. This will help us to understand how 
many supermarkets are present in a neighbourhood. The 
cluster with the least amount of supermarkets will be our 
target cluster.
2. Data Requirements: Neighbourhood names will gathered from 
Wikipedia from the source mentioned in the data description 
section. We will also require longitude latitude details of all the 
neighbourhoods in our data which can be obtained through the 
geocoder package in python. Venue data for each 
neighbourhood will also be required to see what are the 
different outlets in a particular neighbourhood. For this 
purpose, we will use Foursquare API which will allow us to get 
nearby venue data for each neighbourhood.
3. Data Collection: Once the data requirements are met we can 
check the data for possible outcomes. This initial phase will 
help us determine if we need more data and if the data has 
enough parameter to make a decision. This will also help us 
understand if we have enough data related to supermarkets to 
make a prediction as to where a new supermarket can be 
opened. If not we can acquire more venue data from 
Foursquare API to make a better decision.
4. Data Understanding and Preparation: using descriptive 
statistics and visualization we can determine how certain 
parameters or variables are related to each other to better 
understand the link between the data by using techniques like 
correlation. In terms of visualization, We can use Folium 
package in Python to plot our data using the longitude latitude 
collected through geocoder. It will help us verify if our location 
data is correct or not. Once the data is check we can go further 
by using machine learning techniques to gather insights.
5. Modelling and Evaluation: K means clustering will be used to 
divide the data into clusters which will help us identify location 
with no or less supermarkets. Of the 4 clusters created, we can 
see that neighbourhoods in cluster 1 has no supermarkets.
These neighbourhoods can serve as places where a new 
supermarket can be opened.






Results:
After using the K means algorithm we can see that the data can 
properly clustered into 4 clusters as per the image below.
Dividing the neighbourhood into 4 clusters we can see that cluster 1 
has no supermarkets followed by some supermarkets in cluster 2,
cluster 0 and cluster 3 respectively. This tells us that cluster 1 can be 
used further to determine a location for our supermarket. As there 
are no Supermarkets in the neighbourhoods present in cluster 1, 
there will less competition. This will ensure that the business will run 
efficiently.
Discussion:
Now that we have determined the cluster with no supermarkets, we 
can finalize one location from the list of neighbourhoods present in 
Cluster 1. As per the notebook, all these show promise for new 
supermarkets but we may need to consider other factors as well. We 
will need to take into account the cost of land in each 
neighbourhood as this will highly affect the Return on investment for 
prospective investor or owner. Furthermore, we will also have to 
check the population in each of these neighbourhoods as more 
population will mean that more people will visit the supermarket 
which will directly increase business income.
Future Scope:
Based on the above discussion section, we can further continue our 
analysis by including data for cost of land in each neighbourhood. We 
will also need to include data for population in each neighbourhood 
as these two factors will play a key role in determining the 
neighbourhood that will be the most suitable for opening a 
supermarket. Although, Supermarkets may not be present in the 
neighbourhood that we finalize, we may also need to consider the 
smaller establishments that sell the same products our supermarket 
is willing to sell. This may affect the business as people may rely on 
such stores to get their items. We can gather more data from 
Foursquare API to check for more similar establishments in the 
neighbourhood.
Conclusion:
Based on the Analysis, we can confirm that neighbourhoods present 
in Cluster 1 can serve as the best locations to open a new 
supermarket. We can further analyse base on cost of land and 
population data of these neighbourhoods to pick out one 
neighbourhood that will best suit to open a new supermarket
